
Hedonism:

  Hedonism means to pertain or relate in some way to pleasure.

  Hedonistic act utilitarianism is one of the most familiar forms of consequentialism.

Consequentialism:

  Generally, one adherent to the principals outlined by hedonistic act
  utilitarianism caters towards the consideration of the action or actions that
  produce the most net pleasure, by which we mean least pain, applied to those others
  concerned within the given contextual confrontation of moral virtues.

  Utilitarianism is a special case of the broader range of abstract consequentialist
  theories that make the moral evaluation of situations depend.

  Consequentialism is a much broader topic, having particular varieties besieged by
  this generalisation; they have their strength and weaknesses.

  Simply:

    Simply, this derivative, called utilitarianism, of consequentialism is a
    prominent form of consequentialism seeking to maximise the overall utility by
    weighing the negative and potential consequences to actions.

  Critiques:

    1. Ignores individual right.
    2. Inherent bias in utility calculations.
    3. Unpredictability of consequence; challenging.
    4. Devalues intrinsic moral worth.

Holistic Overview of Hedonistic Act Utilitarianism:

  A key concept concerned with H.A.U, hedonistic act utilitarianism, is that it
  describes the good of an action in terms of the agent's duty to promote pleasure;
  it defines right action in terms of the promotion of good.

  Generalising this idea, we may see consequentialism as a set of moral theories
  where the notion of what's good is primary, explaining other moral
  notions like duty or virtue by their promotion of value.

  A consequentialist identification of virtue may be virtuous inclinations as those
  with good consequences; the identification of duty may be as an action that
  promotes the good.

  To think like a consequentialist, in regard to the moral assessment of any
  of these things, is to think that one's assessment of the alternatives should
  be governed in a suitable way by the values of those alternatives; this is a
  teleological view, where actions are justified by evidence,
  given their reasoning as a function of their end.

  A value to an action is an abstract quantity associated to action, determining
  that action's ability to promote good; 'right action,' is action that promotes
  value.
