
Computer Misuse Act (1990):

  Key Points:

    1. Unauthorised access to computer material; hacking, up to six months in prisons, fine of £5000.
    2. Unauthorised access to computer materials with further
       intent to commit a crime; upto five years in prison, unlimited fine.
    3. Unauthorised modification of data; upto five years in prison, unlimited fine.
    4. Making, supplying or obtaining anything that can be used in
       computer offenses; up to ten years in prison, unlimited fine.

    Mnemonics:

      Offenses:

      1. A)ccess.
      2. F)urther intent to cause harm.
      3. M)odification.
      4. P)romotion of items used for computer misuse.

      AFMP - Attackers forgo morality's promotion.

      Penalties (For Each Offense):

      1. S)ix months and £5000.
      2. F)ive years, unlimited fine.
      3. F)ive years, unlimited fine.
      4. T)en years, unlimited fine.

      SFFT - Six Five Five Ten.

      Just, remember to associate six to the number 5000.

      Basically, #define six 5000; give the old macro expander up there a kick.

Data Protections Act (1998):

  Key Points:

    1. Data must be collected and used fairly and inside the law.
    2. Data must only be held and used for the information commissioner.
    3. Data can only be used for those registered purpose; you can't give it
       away or sell it unless you said you would initially.
    4. The data held must be acceptable, appropriate and not beyond what
       is required when compared with the purpose for which the data is held.
    5. Data must be accurate and be kept up to date.
    6. Data must not be kept for longer than required.
    7. Data must be kept safe and secure; personal data protected.
    8. Data may not be transferred outside the EU Economic Area (an area
       of trade and free movement).

    Mnemonics:

      Requirements:

      1. F)air (collected fairly).
      2. O)nly (only for the IC; used and held only for the information commissioner).
      3. P)urpose (it should only be used for the registered purpose).
      4. R)equired (should be required when compared to original purpose).
      5. A)ccurate (kept up to date).
      6. R)edundancy (should not held longer than needed).
      7. P)rotected (safe and secure).
      8. C)ontained (held within the EU Economic area).

      FOPRARPC - Funny orange parrots read about recurrent philosophy, curiously.

The IPC (Intellectual Property Act):

	Key Points:

		1. Marking products with a link.

			 This allows patent owners to mark their produces with a hyperlink to a website
			 detailing the specific patent number associated with the product.

		2. Unified patent court.

			 This court is a specialist court; provides a framework for the purpose of dealing with
			 cases of infringement.

    3. Opinion service.

       Offers a means of resolving disputes by providing an affordable assessment of
       a patent's infringement case, to determine if it's valid, and or whether or not
       it's an original design.

    4. Criminal Offense:

       It's an offense for a person to intentionally copy a registered design, with intent to
       make it a product of their own. The offense can ensue a 10 year prison sentence.

    5. Prior user rights.

       Limited protection is given to those who use a registered design in good faith; they
       may continue to use the design, but aren't permitted to expand on the usage of the design
       beyond the original.

    Mnemonic:

      MUOCP - Many utilitarian operations compartmentalise prospects.

      Compartmentalisation in the nature of separation; operation in
      implicit regards for an action taken by a utilitarian. Chances
      are weighed, considered individually, separated, and so they're
      compartmentalised in that sense, the prospects constituent to
      the action.
