
DNS:

  DNS stands for domain name system; servers that are part of the domain name system
  are tasked with the resolution of domains to addresses.

  They take a URI, and return the address of the service server associated to that URI.

  A local resolver will communicate with the root domain name server to get the servers
  associated to a particular top level domain and thus the IP of the server of the
  service under that domain.

DNS Stages:

  DNS recursor/resolver:

    This is a server designed to receive queries from client machines
    through applications, such as a web browser; its typically
    responsible for making additional requests in order to satisfy
    the DNS query.

    The resolver may be on the client computer itself; a service
    called systemd-resolved is available on Linux for this
    exact purpose.

    It'll typically make a query to a root DNS server.

  Root name server:

    The root name server is the second step taken to translating
    domains into IP addresses; it's a collection of server addresses
    for top level domain name servers.

  TLD name server:

    This holds the servers associated to the last portion of a domain
    name; '.com' is a valid example of TLD.

    This is a collection of server addresses, under
    the particular TLD header, for authoritative name
    servers for services hosted under that TLD.

  Authoritative name server:

    This is the last stop in the query; if the name server
    has access to the requested record, it'll return the
    address for the requested domain name back to the DNS resolver.

DNS Zones:

  A DNS zone represents a portion of the
  DNS namespace that an organisation manages, which allows managers
  to have a more granular control over the DNS components.

  An authoritative name server controls a DNS zone for which
  it is responsible for; they can either be a primary or a secondary
  server.

  A DNS zone is implemented in the configuration system of a DNS
  server; a text file that starts with the special DNS record SOA,
  meaning start of authority, and contains all records for the
  resources described within the zone.

  We think of a DNS zone as a delegated partition of the Domain
  namespace, a container of the DNS settings and DNS
  records inside a DNS zone file.

  The DNS namepsace can have multiple zones; structured at the
  top with the root level, top level domain level, domain
  and subdomain. This is good for administrative
  purposes, allowing us to manage the different levels
  of the namespace.

  There are two types of DNS zone; primary and secondary.

  The primary zone is used for control, the secondary
  is used for redundancy reduction; the secondary
  gets all the records from the primary DNS zone
  in a DNS zone transfer, this is typically
  done when the cache TTL expires or 
  the primary server pushes it.

  A DNS zones shouldn't be directly associated to
  a specific domain; a domain name zone
  may contain single or multiple host names
  for the same domain, dns zones can be
  on the same server too.

DNS Records:

  A DNS record is an instruction that lives within an authoritative 
  DNS server, providing information about a domain and what IP 
  address is associated with that domain and how to handle requests 
  for it.

  These records have a time to live, which implies the number of time 
  taken before a server refreshes this information.

  Record types:

    A - Holds the address of a domain (IPv4).
    AAAA - Holds IPv6 address for a domain.
    CNAME record - Forwards a domain or subdomain to another domain.
    MX record - Directs mail to an email server.
    TXT record - Lets an admin store text notes in the record.
    NS record - Stores the name server for a DNS entry.

  Under the root zone, the domain namespace is organised in a layout
  of subdomains below the root domain '.'. The period is typically
  implicit with most URIs.

  The domain name system is segregated into this way so subdomains of 
  a domain can be managed individually, and independently.

