
Investigating a problem:

  This should be a logical and systematic approach carried out under
  sequences of steps; you identify the symptoms of the problem, then
  identify the area affected by the problem, recently applied changes
  that may have caused it, the most likely source that may have caused
  it, implement a solution to resolve the problem, then test the solution.

  It's important that you document everything too.

Problem Solving Process:

  1. Identify the problem.
  
      Start with open (ambiguous) and closed ended (yes / no) questions.
      
      Document the responses; verify these descriptions by
      gathering data from the computer's logs through BIOS
      information, device manager, event viewer, if it's a
      Linux device you consider the programs of that
      nature, systemd's journalctl for e.g. for event diagnostics.

  2. Establish a theory of probable cause.

      Create a list of the most common reasons why the error
      would occur. Start with the easiest, or most obvious causes.

  3. Test the theory of probable cause.

      Determine the exact cause by testing the theories of
      probable causes incrementally; after all the probable theories
      are exhausted, determine new ones and test them.

  4. Establish a plan of action to resolve the cause.

      After the cause is identified, create a plan of action to resolve it; sometimes
      quite procedures can determine the exact cause of the problem or even correct it.

      If a procedure does not correct the problem, further research is required.

      Dividing larger problems into smaller sub-problems that can be
      analysed and solved individually is an effective way of solving
      the problem collectively.

  5. Verify full system functionality and implement preventative measures.

      Verify all system functionality by implementing any preventative measures
      require; ensure that another problem hasn't been created during the
      resolution of the problem.

  6. Document findings, actions and outcomes.

      Discuss the solution; ensure it's been resolved.

      Document the process, give a description, the steps to resolve it, and the
      components used during the repair.

Approach:

  Initially, determine the scope, apply your experience and analyse the problem.

  Use a suitable approach:

    1.Linear (top down and bottom up).

      Examples are given in the context of the OSI model.

      Bottom-Up:

        You start with the physical layer, then work up.

      Top-Down:

        You start with the application layer, then work down.

    2. Half slip (divide and conquer).

      This is a divide and conquer approach where
      the problem is segmented in some way.
