
This document will contain information about networking gathered from Cisco's networking courses.

Media:

  Data is transmitted across a network; there are three channels over which the message of a devices travels from source to destination.

  Media Channels:

    1. Metal wires; data is encoded by electrical pulses.
    2. Glass or plastic; data is encoded into pulses of light.
    3. Wireless; data is encoded via modulation of electromagnetic wave frequencies.

Ethernet:

  Ethernet is for NIC to NIC communication on the same network.

  This is related to the data link layer of the OSI model.

  Ethernet Frame:

    Frame segments: [Preamble] [Start Frame Delimiter] [Destination MAC Address] [Source MAC Address] [Length Type] [Data] [Frame Check Sequence]
    Bytes:              7                 1                         6                      6                2        many            4

  Segment purposes:

    Preamble:
    
      The preamble is for synchronisation; it gets the receiving NIC in sync with the incoming bit stream.

    The Start Frame Delimiter:

      This tells the receiving network interface card that the information following this is associated to the ethernet frame.

    The Destination MAC Address:

      This is the MAC address for the network interface card that's the destination of the frame.

    The Source MAC Address:

      This is the address of the network interface card from which the frame originates.

    Length Type:

      This might be the length of the data; how many bytes are in the data partition.

      This also might be the type field; is this Ipv4 or Ipv6?

    Data:
    
      This contains the data; it might be a network packet containing http or some other payload data.

      It's whatever the frame encapsulates.

      The ethernet could 'gees ah shite ah bout' the data contained within this segment; it's just delivering it.

    Frame Check Sequence:

      This is for performing error checking to ensure that there's been no loss of information during transmission.

  Distinction:

    A MAC address will uniquely identify a network interface; an Ipv4 address identifies a host who's part of a network.

  Ethernet Switches:

    These operate at the layer two segment of the OSI model; this is because they operate with layer two information for forwarding rules.

    MAC Tables:
      
      Switches have MAC address tables; to forward the frame, a switch looks at a MAC address, and queries the MAC address
      to determine which port it's associated to.

      When the switch receives a frame, it determines whether or not the MAC addresses within are known to it; it'll check the source
      address of the frame and determine whether or not that address is already known to it in the table, and if it doesn't, it'll add
      it to the MAC address table, having it then correspond to the respective ethernet port.

      Then, once the source address is resolved, it'll check if the destination address exists within the table; if it doesn't, this is
      known as an unknown unicast, because the switch doesn't know which port to send it.

      In this condition, it'll act like an older ethernet hub and send the frame to every port on the network; the devices will receive the
      frame, and if the MAC address of the device doesn't match the destination address of the frame, it gets ignored, otherwise it gets
      received and the table is populated with the MAC address of the successfully receiving device and the ethernet port associated.

      This is typically done by means of the receiving device sending back a frame confirming that it received the frame, allowing
      the switch to learn about the address of the device that successfully received the frame.

      They tend to keep the information within the table for about five minutes, before flushing the table to keep it
      up to date.

  IPv4:

    A host of a network needs an IPv4 address to participate on the local access network and the internet; it identifies a particular host.

    An address must be unique within the LAN for local communication, as well as on the internet for remote usage.

    An IPv4 address is assigned to the network interface card; hosts may have more than one NIC, each with their own IP address for
    participating within networks.

    Routers that provide connections to an IP network also have IPv4 addresses, typically with a host segment of one or the last
    representable host, being x.x.x.1 or x.x.x.254.

    Packet:
    
      These are the datagrams often encapsulated within frames; each has a destination and source IPv4 address, required by networking
      devices to ensure the information is provided to the destination, and replies from the destination to the source.


    Classes:

      There are different classes of IPv4 addresses; each are divided into two segments representing the host and network

      The distinction between classes is the number of bytes allocated to each octet for representing the host and network;
      note that an octet is a sequence of eight bits.

      1. Class C addresses have three bytes allocated to the network, with one byte allocated to the host.
      2. Class B addresses have two bytes allocated to the network, with two bytes allocated to the host.
      3. Class A addresses have one byte allocated to the network, with three bytes allocated to the host.

      Classless inter domain representation (CIDR):

        This is a notation for representing the number of bits allocated
        to the network; it's a short hand for a bitwise mask of bytes
        used to attain the network segment with a bitwise and.

        For example: 192.168.68.1/24.

        It can be used to represent the bytes allocated
        to the network for any classful address, but
        we typically use it to describe super or sub netting
        network configurations.

        For example: 192.168.68.1/25 would mean that
        there's one extra bit allocated to the
        network for this network; one bit means two subnets.

        You could use this to have one host per subnet; but
        that's silly for obvious reasons.

        One benefit to sub netting are the broadcast addresses;
        each network has associated to it a broadcast address
        for communicating with every device on the network, typically
        having an address with a host part equal to
        the last representable number of the host portion of the address.

        If we were to have one network with many hosts, it would
        take longer to talk to them all when pinging the broad
        cast address; using sub netting reduces the time
        to ping each network segment.

      The Private, Public Distinction:

        Each IPv4 address is either public or private; private IP address can't directly access
        the internet, requiring an ISP to route them through public addresses to do so.

        Public address, thus, can access the internet directly.

        Having ISPs and using sub netting solves the problem of finite IPv4 addresses; by routing
        private IPs through public ones and dividing networks into subnets we can
        make it seem as though we have more IPs than we actually have.

        There are ranges addresses determined by the IP classes that can represent private addresses, with the
        rest of the representable IPs of the class being public.

        Private Address Range:

          A: 10.x.x.x
          B: 172.x.x.x - 172.16.x.x
          C: 192.168.x.x
