
What is it?

	IP tables are used to setup, maintain, and inspect packet filter rules
	in the Linux kernel through the manipulation of 'Tables.'
	
	Its an implementation of the netfilter framework provided by the linux kernal;
	the netfilter framework represents a set of hooks used by programmers to write high
  level implementations of the linux network interface, like ufw and iptables.

What's a table?

	A table contains a number of builtin or user-defined 'chains.'

Well, what's a chain?

	A chain is a list of rules that can match a set of network packets.

And?

	A packet is a collection of networking data; it includes the IP address
	of the source and host, accompanied by a payload and some other data.

	A packet that matches according to the defined rules of a chain is called
	a 'target.'

What exactly is a firewall rule? In the context of iptables.

	A firewall rule specifies the criteria for a packet and a target. If a packet does
	not match, it's naturally not a target for that rule; the next rule in the chain 
	is then examined.

	You can think of a table as a list of chains, lists of rules; a table
	is a list of lists of rules.

	Table:
		Chain 1:
			Rule 1.
			Rule 2.
			...
			Rule N.
		Chain 2:
			Rule 1.
			Rule 2.
			...
			Rule N.
		...
		Chain N:
			Rule 1.
			Rule 2.
			...
			Rule N.

	If the rule in the chain is a match, the next rule is specified by the value
	of the matching target.

	The target, then at that point can be:
		1. The name of a user defined chain.
		2. A target described in iptables-extensions(8), or
		3. One of the special values accept, drop, or return.

	Accept:
		This means to let the packet through.

	Drop:
		This means to drop the packet.

	Return:
		This means to stop traversing the current chain and resume at the next rule of the
		calling chain; chains can call and infer each other.

Tables:

	The tables present on the system are dependent on the kernel configuration and active modules.

	There are five chains, specified by --table, to
	match packets against a particular packet matching table.

	1. Filter:
		
		 This is the default table; used on --table abscence.

		 It contains the built-in chains:
		  1. INPUT: Alters packets destined for local sockets.
				 This is the incomming traffic created by goblins outside our system.
		 	2. OUTPUT: Locally generated packets.
				 This is outgoing traffic created in the computer by the magic goblin.
		 	3. FORWARD: Packets being routed through the machine.
				 This is where network traffic goes through your device
				 as a proxy.

	2. Nat:

		 The nat table represents what to do when a new connection is encountered.

Commmand Example:

	iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp --destination-port 80 -j \
 		REDIRECT --to-port <yourListenPort>

	The NAT table, as specified by '-t nat' is used to refer to packets that create
	new connections. 

	The pre-routing chain specifies that we're altering the packets as soon as they're received;
	the '-A' flag is a means of specifying that we want to (A)PPEND this chain to the 
	table specified.

	The '-p' specifies the protocol used for transferring information, in this case we're looking at
  the Tele-communications Protocol; destination-port corresponds with the port we're watching 
	to receive these packets, in this case port 80 which corresponds to HTTP; we're watching for
	HTTP connections that use TCP.

	The '-j' flag specifies what to do when we receive these packets; we (J)UMP to this instruction
	and carry it out, which in this case is the act of redirecting to a given port as specified
	by the REDIRECT builtin.
