
This information is a paraphrasing of heir(7); a man page description of the
Linux file system hierarchy.

'/':

  This is where the tree of the Linux file system starts, the root directory.

Bin:

  This contains command binaries.

Boot:
  
  This contains static files required to load the operating system (vmlinuz and initramfs images, also configurations and parameters for the bootloader).

Dev:

  This contains special device interface files that refer to physical or
  emulated devices /dev/sda or /dev/pty respectively for example.

  Aside (logical volume manager):

    ~$ lsblk

    You'll see things like /dev/sda and /dev/sdax, where 'x' is some number representing a partition.

    The logical volume manager is sometimes used for the purpose of having a nicer interface to partitions, it also has some benefits to
    conventional partitioning; it may however, make the part of the output from lsblk to the block device containing the root directory
    look a bit strange if you didn't have it automatically done for yourself.

    It typically provides a means of creating virtual block devices from physical devices; block device mapping.

    A volume group (VG) is a collection of one or more physical volumes (PV), which are typically just physical block devices.

    A logical volume (LV) is a virtual device, and each data block in a logical volume is stored on the physical
    volumes belonging to the logical volume's corresponding volume group.

    This means that physical data volumes (physical block devices) part of a volume group can be interfaced by the same
    virtual device (logical volume) to store information; this is in accordance with the algorithms implemented by the
    device mapper in which the LVM is implemented.

    LV -> (VG) [PV1, PV2, ...]

    https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/lvm.8.html

    NAME                   MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINTS
    zram0                  252:0    0   1.8G  0 disk [SWAP]
    nvme0n1                259:0    0 119.2G  0 disk
    ├─nvme0n1p1            259:1    0     1G  0 part /boot
    └─nvme0n1p2            259:2    0 118.2G  0 part
      ├─ArchinstallVg-root 253:0    0    20G  0 lvm  /
      └─ArchinstallVg-home 253:1    0    98G  0 lvm  /home
    
    (BTW, what is this goofy HALF-LIFE game lineage looking mess of a collection of nested block devices?)

Etc:

  This contains host specific system configurations; 'host' means the computer, system wide.

Home:

  This contains users home directories, which contains in themselves user specific files and directories.

Lib:

  Contains essential shared libraries and kernel modules.

Media:

  Contains mount points for removable media, like CD, DVD or USB.

Mnt:

  Contains mount points for temporarily mounting file systems; contains
  subdirectories intended for use as mount points to temporary file systems.

  I've used this to mount USB's before with file systems on them, so I guess
  either media or mnt could be used, strangely; I might be using it wrong.

Lost+found:

  This will contain items lost in the file system; usually chunks of files
  mangled as a consequence of a faulty disk or crash.

Opt:

  This contains add on packages, static files.

Proc:

  This contains information about running processes and the kernel; it's a
  pseudo-filesystem; more information can be found in the man pages at proc(5).

Root (not /):

  This is usually the home directory of the root user, it's optional.

Run:

  Contains information describing the system since boot.

Sbin:

  Like bin, this directory holds commands needed to boot the operating
  system, but ones that aren't usually executed by normal users. These
  are called 'special binaries.'

Srv:

  Contains site-specific data served by the system; web servers like
  httpd.

Sys:

  A mount point for the sysfs file system; provides information about
  the kernel like proc but bettered structured, following
  an infrastructure formalism called 'kobject.'

Tmp:

  This contains temporary files that may be deleted with not
  notice, either by regular jobs or at system boot.

Usr:

  This is usually mounted from a separate partition; it should
  only hold within shareable, read only data, to be mounted
  by various other machines running Linux.

Var:
  
  This contains files that may change in size; spool and log
  files.
